Give the public
Thank you, Eric.
Eric, can you change a phone numbers
names or put a name on the phone number?
>> Yeah, I think so. Hang on a sec.
>> That would be great.
Uh
6988. That's you, Carol.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you.
Okay.
Uh, I am going to call to order the Town
of Andover Board of Select Bin Reg for
Monday, October 6, 2025 at 6:01 p.m. And
our first order of business is the
Pledge of Allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America, and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
Thank you very much. Um,
uh, the second order of business is
public speak and I'll get started with
Kathy Plausy.
>> Uh, good evening. Um, I am asking I
deferred my public speak to Eric
Anderson
when he does his presentation.
>> Okay, he got it.
Uh, Haley Proto.
>> Nothing at this time. Thank you.
>> All right. Louise Goodwin,
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Diane Grer,
>> I am all set also. Thank you very much.
>> All right. Um, Alicia,
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Tess Grass,
>> I am all set, sir. Thank you.
>> Um, Marcy,
>> no, thank you.
Uh, Kimberly Persant,
>> Elsa, thank you.
>> Okay, so did I miss anyone?
Okay, since I didn't miss anyone, if
everybody that's not a member of the
board would mute, that would be great,
and we'll get going. Um, item three,
additions and changes to the agenda.
Does anyone board uh want to uh add or
delete something that's on the agenda?
Um, I know that uh we need to add an
executive session um
related to item 9C.
So, I'd like to make a recommendation
that we had an executive session at the
end of our meeting to discuss 9C uh
public works supervisor
um position and contract. Well, that is
on there. That's item 14.
>> Did I miss it?
>> My bad. I'm
>> Okay,
>> Dane.
>> All right. Then nothing needs to be
added. Nothing needs to be deleted. Is
that accurate? Go ahead. So I I would
like to see one thing added and that is
item 9H
um which is a board of fire
commissioners
request to trade in the old ambulance
when it gets replaced later this month
by a new ambulance.
>> Um we'll make that nine I if you don't
mind
because we have an H on the agenda.
>> Same.
>> Oops. Okay. Yep.
>> Um
um
Jeff Murray is having some trouble
logging in, so we're going to hold off
for a second on on this. Um, so I'm
going to call it nine I um fire uh
commission
fire commission
um
request to trade in ambulance.
Is that accurate? that is and I'll give
you the meat of it in my administrator's
report, but you should keep a separate
agenda item because the board would want
to vote on that one way or the other.
>> All right. So, I'm going to make a
motion. Um, did we get Jeff back?
>> Uh,
okay.
>> He's still listed, but Jeff, can you
hear us?
I don't see him on my list.
Snider.
>> No, he just dropped. No, he's on my
No, no, I dropped off again.
All right. If If no one my uh Well, we
should wait and see if he wants to add
something.
Okay, Jeff is joining again.
Hopefully this time it works.
>> Okay, Jeff, let us know when you're you
can hear us and you can speak.
Um
Uh, Eric, are you um
is there any issue uh of blocking audio
from um
well, if Jeff, if you can hear us, can
you come off of mute and speak?
>> Can you hear me now? Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah. It was something about my PC. It
said it was it said the audio was shut
off by the by the toast. So, it's
working.
>> Okay. So, we uh we held off. We are on
um the point of adding one item. Eric
requested to that the fire commission
added to uh add an item. So, I'm going
to uh do you have anything, Jeff, that
you want to add or delete?
>> No, I'm all set.
>> Okay. So, I'm going to make a motion
that we add uh item 9 I uh request from
the fire commission to trade in uh
current ambulance.
Um I got a second on that.
>> I'll seconded
by Carol Lee. And uh further discussion?
No. Uh we're going to sit there and go
through roll call. and creme.
>> Hi
>> Carol Lee.
>> Okay.
>> Yes. I
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I so five nothing to
add. Nine I. Okay. Uh let's get started
then.
So uh item four, boards and commission
presentations. Eric, do we have
anything?
>> No, we do not.
>> Okay. Item five, any appointments that
need to be uh perform uh done this
meeting?
>> No.
>> Okay. Item six, any resignations?
>> Nope.
>> Okay. Item seven, town administrator uh
report.
>> Okay. Uh let me just close that and get
to that.
So, I'm going to talk through what I
asked to add to the agenda. Um but
you'll need to vote on it on the actual
action item. Um and that is the fire
department is looking for permission to
trade in its current ambulance
when the replacement ambulance arrives
next month. Um the company that's
building the ambulance will offer them
21,000 in trade for a 2012
uh ambulance.
Um the replacement cost of the new
ambulance is $334,
uh483.
Um that will be purchased by the Andover
volunteer fire department and then given
to the town essentially, which is what
they do with all ambulances. It's paid
for by the ambulance billing fund. Um,
and but the town owns title and retains
purchase or retains the ownership of the
ambulance. Therefore, the they need your
permission if they're going to uh trade
it in. So, that's that. Um,
other than that,
um, do you want me to go through my
report? there's not a ton in it. Um,
you know, or do you just want to ask
particular questions about things that
are in the report since there's I
haven't added a lot to the report since
I wrote it.
>> Uh, why don't you go through it quickly
so that if people want to sit there and
ask and they hear you say something, it
jogs their mind.
>> Okay. Sure. Um,
Bunker Hill Bridge uh been working to
keep the construction on track um and
stay on top of the pay and reimbursement
schedule for the bridge. Uh there is
um you know at this point we're
basically caught up with the original
schedule. So the expectation is that
this bridge will be finished this
construction season um and open before
winter, hopefully before snowfall. Um so
that's a good result for the town
overall given the delays in the project.
In terms of field projects, remember
there's two things. We have the EasyIQC
project for the athletic field
improvements and I know you want to talk
about that separately so I won't go over
that now. Um the senior transportation
garage if you remember the board
authorized me to sign a designon
contract with the Gordian Group and
Millennium Builders to produce a final
design um you know to push that project
forward.
Um, we have uh hired a new public works
employee. That's George uh Teemos. He
will start on October 13th and we're
looking forward to getting that
department back up closer to uh full
staff. Um the Longill Bridgement is
still on schedule for next August. had a
couple meetings this month with uh uh
VHB and a guy named Tom Weldon in terms
of what what the next steps are with
that bridge. Um so that's that is
proceeding well. Um it was delayed
because once they uh the state accepted
the fact that they would put up the
traffic light at they did that very late
in the process. So, it wasn't part of
the original bid package. So, they're
revising that now um with the intent
that that bid would go out in November
for the actual construction company. On
October 28th
is going to be the meeting where the uh
companies um the RFP went out a while
ago. um we delayed the uh reviewing of
the RFP for construction administration
services. Um so we should have all the
companies in here on October 28th to
evaluate the request for quotes from
those um and go from there. So that is
progressing.
Town hall building overall is in pretty
good shape. Um in the packet there are
some additional proposals to finish some
electrical work uh both in the community
center and elsewhere but that's those
are separate line items so we'll deal
with them separately. Um everything else
is running fairly smoothly
as a town. Um, we seem to have had most
of the complaints about dirt bikes uh in
town tamped down. So, and unfortunately
that I think is in part related to uh
the death of one of the youths um that
was involved in that which is
unfortunate.
So, public works, I know we're going to
discuss the potential contract uh later
on, so I will cover that. And uh
that's basically it. I've given the
board of selectmen and the board of
finance a series of the planning
documents.
um prior to the meeting on October 15th,
the tri board meeting. So you have
basically a projects document, a grants
document, and then the building and
grounds update, which I also submitted
to CIP for review at their next meeting.
Uh so that's basically it unless you
have other questions for me.
>> Anyone have any questions for Eric
related to the town administrator's
report?
The only question I have is you said
George was starting on October 13th. Is
that a public works holiday?
>> Oops. He's starting on the 14th. You're
right.
>> Okay. Just just wanted to double check
on that, Eric. Thanks.
>> Yeah, totally forgot that was an actual
holiday.
Okay, thank you, Carol. Anything else?
Okay, let's move on to um
I'm just trying to see, Eric, where the
documents that you have in the packet
fit into what we're talking about. So,
on page seven, after your
report or after the new business page.
Um, we have the Lenco quotes. Where are
they going to fit here so I know where
to come back to them?
>> Right. So, give me a couple seconds.
I just have too many things open at the
moment.
>> Okay. So, they're not they're new
business. Quote for installation of sub
panel and the quote for installation of
lights in Andover Public Library.
Yes, that's correct. Those should be new
business items.
>> All right, so we'll move on to um eight
uh
which is old business uh 8A the Bunker
Hill Bridge update and uh
Eric, you gave us that. So that's on
track to finish uh as close to the
original finish date as we possibly can
get it.
>> Correct.
Uh any problems with any of the pylon
the testing that was brought up in
previous meeting?
>> No, we're all the testing results
subsequent to that have been good
>> and we accepted their explanation for
the testing data that they received.
>> Okay. 8B Andover's finest update. Um
Carol, I'll ask you where are we at with
that? Are we are we satisfied that we're
going to start moving forward with that?
I sent over the document that you
requested to Eric the day after our
meeting. So, I'm not sure if that was
posted online along with the forms for
people to start nominating. I'm sorry I
didn't check
>> the website to see if it out there.
Eric, can you verify if if it was posted
and let's make sure that we get a spot
on one of the front pages so that we can
at least have it visible to the
residents.
>> Okay, Carol, you'll probably need to
resend it to me because I don't
uh I don't recall having seen it, which
is not to say you didn't send it. Um but
uh send it to me again and
>> Okay, I'll send it right after the
meeting is over.
>> Okay. Sorry about that.
>> All right. 8C, the status of the veteran
field improvement.
Uh, so
there were a series of questions raised
about that. I don't know whether you
want to go into that now. We certainly
can't. Um so in the uh intervening time
I did set up a meeting with DEC which is
Department of Economic and Community
Development
um and I gave them the revised spending
proposal. So what's happening now is the
two different grants administrators from
DEC,
one that covers the steep program and
the one that covers legislative funding
are talking um and I gave them
essentially two options. the option
because when we did the original steep
grant proposal, we said this was phase
two of a multi-phase program, which says
essentially that we're going to do work
outside of this anyway. um that either
uh and I gave them what a proposed
combined spending
uh plan would be for both grants um
broken out. U but I also said that if
they don't want to do that, we will
happily break this into two, you know,
and essentially do the steep grant as
phase two and spend the remaining money
as phase three. um and just you know
split the project with Gordon into two
separate projects which so they're
getting back to me on which is their
preferred method for dealing with that.
Um once I know that I will sub submit
both to and and they're fine with using
EasyIQC.
Um that's a program both or both both
grant administrators are comfortable
with um because a lot of other towns
have used that.
So my goal is to get this thing to final
signature sometime in early November.
And the reason is we know if we get to
December we're looking at a 6% increase
in the cost of the playground. Um so I'm
trying to beat that deadline. I have a
contract scheduled with Gordon Gordian
and have Gordian have already ordered
the playground prior to that
uh grant going into effect.
So the other question was the total
budget. Uh the total budget combined
between the two grants plus the town
match plus the Hartford Foundation for
public giving is $910,000
and that includes $500,000 in steep
funding,
$250,000
in a legislative appropriation,
$150,000
town match,
um and $10,000 for from Hartford
Foundation for public giving. Um, and
that dollar amount also includes
about $15,000 in contingency funding.
Um, so we are still under the $150,000
budget that the town meeting uh
originally authorized from the town's
perspective. you know, we're still we're
obligated to put in that 150,000,
but given that a a small portion of that
is contingency, we're technically still
under the budget that we uh originally
asked for for the public.
So, there were some other questions
raised. The first was, is public works
able to remove the existing well? Um,
the answer to that is yes. Um, public
works is fully capable of doing it. The
only thing public works can't do legally
is cap an existing well. That has to be
done by a well driller. Um, and we
coordinated with Staven's Brothers to do
that. So, essentially we paid for the
grout. We removed the uh the well
casing. Public works removed the pipe,
removed all the wiring and removed all
the guts out of the vault. Um and
Staven's brothers witnessed the pouring
of the grout uh in the existing well
hole. So that has actually been
completed at this point. Um you know and
it was done legally. So the second
question was how much will finishing the
parking area cost and the answer is not
a lot. Um and the reason is it's already
a full gravel base and depending on how
public works how cheap we want to go.
The only thing we're actually obligated
to pave there are two handicapped
parking spots. And we could technically
legally even get away without that
because the law only says they have to
be hard, dustless surface. Um,
we would do that as part of our normal
paving operations. We had intended to do
some shimming on Riverside. So when
Abbey Construction is there doing
shimming next year in the spring, we
would just have the two spots paid as
part of that. So our costs are, you
know, a portion of a day rental or
portion of a day labor for abbey
construction and the cost of liquid
asphalt. Um, we could potentially do the
parking lot. Anything that needs to be
done with gravel from the town's pit, I
would prefer to use quite uh to top that
material the rest of the gravel lot with
some good process. And it looks like
there's somewhere around $3,000 to
$4,000 in profit um or product that
would be put down there. Um and if we
get to that part, we would spend that
out of contingency
uh at that point. So it wouldn't really
affect the budget.
Uh next question, what are the hazardous
materials and who will handle them? We
have no known hazardous materials on
site. Um that is something most
contractors build into a contract
because it's covered. It's an unknown.
So um you know normally when you're
referring
you're removing soil if you're a
contractor you remove the soil you have
the pile tested and then as long as it's
negative you just have a pile of gravel.
uh to deal with. Um being that it's the
town, the town can simply move its
gravel from one location to another,
which we do regularly when we take
gravel out of the pit. So, there
shouldn't be any issues with that. As
far as invasive species, that area will
be uh we will chip the material into the
back of one of public works trucks. That
will probably occur starting this week.
Um, and we're just going to deposit it
at the Andover Town Pit, um, which is
full of the same invasives anyway, as is
most of the town. Um, the only reason
the thing on there was about invasives
was on there in the beginning is the
Inland Wetlands Commission, as part of
their uh, approval said, "Hey, while
you're at it, um, why don't you tear out
the invasives that are right behind the
project area?" And since it was a
relatively lowcost thing for us to do,
we agreed to do that uh as part of that.
Are there any other costs behind besides
public works salary associated with
these inind services? Yeah, we we bought
about two cubic yards of of grout. So
that's probably I think it's
it's a little cheaper than concrete mix,
but not much. It's basically just
Portland cement in sand. Um so it's
equivalent to a couple yards. So I'm
guessing that's under $500.
Uh and we may end up bringing in some
process from quite to finish off the
parking area. We could skip it if we
have to. Um there's none there now, but
it would be a better service.
So
those are all the questions that I have
unless you have further questions for me
related to that project.
The only other question I had, Eric, was
it started as three pickle ball courts.
I know now that it's up to four pickle
ball courts, but was there any
consideration at all for putting in
maybe a basketball court or a tennis or
volleyball court rather than four pickle
ball courts?
Um that would be a question for the
field committee.
Um
you know I don't have any real dog in
the hunt. We originally
uh
had it proposed as three pickle ball
courts and you know then just a paved
open area. Um but the committee I think
as a whole felt it would be smarter to
enclose the whole thing as opposed to
just threearters of it. Um and so they
proceeded that way. But is that a
possibility? Yeah, sure it would be a
possibility. I I mean the committee made
a recommendation on on what they wanted
to see there and that's what ended up in
the final quote.
So,
sorry. So, did the committee
put this out to the public or maybe take
into consideration that
for a basketball court
or something, you know, just I mean,
pickle ball courts are okay, but I'm
just thinking not everybody in town
plays pickle ball. We have a lot of
people who play basketball, too. Um,
just figuring while we're putting it in
because there are no outdoor basketball
courts. There's one at the school that
can't be used when school is in session
and it's not really in that great of a
condition.
>> I mean, you would have to ask that
question. the board would have that have
to ask that question to the committee. I
mean this is what what is proposed is
obviously way different than what we
proposed for the initial steep grant but
the board appointed a commission
committee and said bring us back
proposals
um and they brought and shared those
proposals with the board of selectmen
multiple times. Um,
>> right.
>> I understand that, Eric. I I know. But
I'm I was just wondering if there was
any consideration
um
maybe to ask the general public if they
would like to see something other than
for pickle ball courts because like you
say, it's way different than what was
originally
proposed. So maybe I don't know, Scott,
you were on that committee. Could you
answer that?
committee decided that finishing
all four courts to make four pickle ball
courts was much smarter than not having
the
just just having three courts.
Four court three courts doesn't do you
any you can't have a tournament at with
three courts. you have a tournament, you
have to have at least four courts and
you have to you should finish the all
the courts while you're at it. Can you
could you play basketball on on that
fourth court? Certainly. Yes. But that's
that's this is supposed to the
enhancements were supposed to be for
pickle ball courts, not a basketball
court.
>> There was discussions about the
basketball courts to be really honest.
The committee brought back to us a
basketball court. The committee brought
back to us uh
the committee brought back to us having
three courts and an open space for
recreational purposes whether it be
skateboard or basketball. And the
thought was they were going to bring in
portable basketball hoops so people
could play basketball. To be really
honest, Carol, I was against that
because I don't think that is an
appropriate space to have a halfcourt
basketball or even a fullcourt
basketball down there. I think it would
be uh it would not be in the community's
interest. So, I would be against having
a basketball court down there. Um
so when the committee sat there and
brought back to us the four courts that
was fine because they were going and
close the whole whole space in a fence
but the committee did bring to us
multiple options and we had discussed
that with them at various times.
So even though I understand what you're
saying about basketball court, I am not
I would not be in favor of a basketball
court down there. Um,
it it's not
>> I understand. I'm just saying it's a
shame that we didn't put that out to the
people in Andover, taxpayers, to see if
they would like to see something, you
know, a basketball court or something
else down there in that area. I hear
what you're saying and I understand. I
can imagine your reasoning behind it,
but again, it would have been nice to
let the people of Andover decide that.
>> Well, the people of Andover, again, you
say it like it was done in a vacuum.
None of this was done in a vacuum. You
have you have multiple people that are
on that commission committee. They had
public meetings. They had they they were
presenting this to the public. So,
please don't state it as if it would
been great if we got it out to the
public. It was. They were all invited to
join that committee. Scott joined that
committee on behalf of the board of
selectmen. And how many members are on
that committee, Scott?
>> 10.
>> And it was over two years, you know,
twice a month. So, people had anything
to say, I think that we would have heard
about it.
>> So,
>> I know. But I think a lot of people
might not have known about the meetings.
I wasn't I didn't see any of
>> I tried looking it up online to see how
many agendas were out there and
>> that's all.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Um
>> would it would it be possible in the
future to put in a basketball court or
two in the Veterans Field area? Is there
space down there to someday expand that?
>> There's space. There's space across the
street on the softball field that
doesn't get used. There's space.
>> Okay. So then maybe we can do that in
the future.
>> I know what we'd have to do to get that
done, but there's there's space there.
There are there it would be difficult,
Eric. I do understand what you're
saying, but
you know, it's a
um and there's always opportunities if
you're creative enough to try to figure
it out. So, we could um
um
and there are other areas in town if we
chose to do something additional to sit
there and give an outdoor recreational
for basketball. um we could find a
different location or we could find a
location down there. Um but it's just
how creative we are. So at this point in
time, we have the recommendation for
for pickle ball courts and for the
playground for for children. Um and I
believe I read also that there's um
um a gazebo or a pavilion.
>> Yeah, correct. a big pavilion. Yeah.
>> So the question ended up being Carol and
this came from you was do we go to town
meeting on the legislative funding that
we received related to this
to a recreational funding for that was
coming through uh MD Ramdan and and
Representative Weir. So that was a
question. Attorney O'Brien sent us some
information as an opinion as to what he
thought.
Let's discuss that. So, we're all out in
the open as to what we're doing related
to this project.
>> I did see that attorney opinion this
morning. I don't know if Dennis is on
with us, but I received five pages. Only
three of the pages had information on
them. I'm wondering if that
if the three pages was the last page or
if something happened to page four and
five and maybe they were scanned in.
>> You know how Dennis
>> you know how Dennis wasn't and I thought
he sent us a word document to be really
honest. Um
he did this a word
>> but if you look at it page four and five
and usually he closes his opinion with
something and then attorney Dennis
O'Brien and there's no closing on page
three if you see it.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean it does sound like it's the
ending but
>> there's no real closing statement from
Dennis. And the only other thing I was
going to ask too if we could um have
that opinion maybe just attached to this
month's minutes just so that you know we
went through the process
and got the legal opinion that we don't
have to go for another special town
meeting even though we're over the
650,000
that we proposed to the people in
February of 24.
>> This um this was it appears to be the
completed opinion. Dennis just had two
additional pages in his um
>> okay
>> he was clicking through. Um but I will
also verify that with him.
Um
>> okay
>> make sure and we can include it in the
minute package to to move out. I mean
the the question I mean I guess I I I I
actually want to go on record as I'm
approving.
>> So I I I honestly have no problem. I
mean because to me um we had funding, we
have funding and we had a steep grant
that we did and everybody will sit there
and understand you're doing phases but
even if you not common sense would tell
you if you got additional funding and
you could afford to sit there and do
some things that you were looking at
doing that's just a
a common sense approach to financing the
project. So um
>> right and I understand that. I'm just
thinking like we have a full basement
underneath our community and senior
center that isn't finished. And if it
were going to be finished for
recreational purposes, maybe we could
have had that building completed had
this project stayed in the $650,000
budget that was originally proposed in
February of 24. That's all. We just seem
to push things down the road. And
>> you know, we have an unfinished
community center with a kitchen that's
>> semiusable.
>> Let's let's go through let's go through
that even and speak about that and talk
about
>> Eric wants to talk about that.
>> Sure.
>> Go ahead. Carol, what I would say is
that you're right in in absence of other
funding or other funding applications,
I would kind of agree with that.
However, what we have is two years of
funding at that $250,000
level. So that's number one. So, we'll
have $250,000
in the next fiscal year to finish the
community center. And because it made it
through the Senate Appropriations
Commission, we have another, you know,
federal funding
legislative request sitting out there
that is about $300,000.
um which given the state of the federal
government, I don't know whether it will
be approved um but if they do fund
congressional appropriations this year,
it's logical to assume that will get
funded between those two.
That gives us around $550,000,
>> which is plenty of money to finish the
generator project, which in my mind is a
much bigger priority than finishing the
basement and finishing the basement. Um,
you know, and probably doing whatever
else you have without touching the
multi-use building fund. So that's kind
of the way I look at structuring those
is because I think if we have a little
patience, we can finish all those
projects without spending town dollars.
And to me, that's preferable.
>> You're right because the one the
community rooms part of the town office
building is we have no power there if we
lose power. So, the generator is I agree
with you there, but is the almost
$300,000 the $293,000
uh grant that Senator Murphy resubmitted
on our behalf.
>> Is that what you're talking about?
Because in one of your reports, you said
>> $29,000.
Okay.
>> All right.
>> Correct.
>> I may have the exact dollar figures of
that. I'm not looking at that GRA grant
form right now um because I submitted it
two separate years with two separate
dollar amounts because I changed some of
the things um between the two years
because some of the work we'd already
done um and also the generator a year
later the cost for putting the generator
in had increased.
>> Okay. So I mean in the short term you
know what we've done is essentially off
authorized Lenco to put a the automatic
transfer switch
into the uh
community center and because we have the
pipe stubbed to the outside. If we had
an extended power outage with the
automatic transfer switch there and
everything set up, we could bring in a
generator and power the facility enough
to keep it from freezing up, which is my
big concern. If we we were out of power
for a couple weeks, you know, we have a
town building with no source of heat.
So, that's my that's my goal in that and
why we pushed that project forward
earlier.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you.
Yep.
>> Okay. Uh, does anyone else have any
questions related to the Veterans
Memorial Field Project?
>> Just one question. Just one question.
>> Yep.
>> Just let's say 10 years down the road
pickle ball fades as a sport. Can these
be converted to a basketball courts or
tennis courts pretty much easily or is
it the size restrictions not going to
make it uh you know
suitable for that type of activity?
>> I think you can rotate them 90 degrees
and get two tennis courts out of it.
>> Okay. because because my question is I
see a lot of tennis courts right now
being converted to pickle ball courts
and I could see in the future maybe it
going back the other way. So I'm just
I'm not saying it's going to but you
know stranger things have happened and
we've had people discover tennis again
or something you know and tennis becomes
a fat again and we want to convert them
back from pickle ball to tennis. So is
this something that we can easily
convert back size-wise?
>> Yes. There's no internal fencing,
correct, Scott?
>> Internal though.
>> Okay, that's my only question. We
>> just have a big rectangle
>> because we do we do have fads, so things
things do phase out over time. So, just
to make sure.
All right. Um, anything else?
Okay,
let's get on to um
uh 8D, the Andover Elementary School RFP
for bathroom renovations. So, I'm just
going to ask Eric, do you have any
documentation related to the RFP?
>> I do not.
>> Okay. Um
Jeff, you are on the committee. I'm just
going to ask, do you know if the RFP has
been finalized,
contractors chosen? My my involvement
with that was basically advisory for the
design and um I I'd um
communicated to the board of the Andover
BOE chair Kaitlin Greenhouse that I felt
that this should have went through um
the RFP process through the town at
least that we got the RFP and we're able
to advertise it um at least through the
town because
um I don't know who the I don't know who
the person was that that Fuss and O'Neal
used for the RFP process. Um I still I
kind of I asked Kayn about that and she
said they were getting bids and I just
want to make sure we have a fair, honest
and open process between
um the town and the school and and that
uh
things are done in a transparent manner.
And that's that's just one concern of
mine. I I commun that communicated that
to Kayn. I haven't seen any bids. I
haven't seen anything related to what
was sent out. So I can't really comment
to that. U my my pretty much involvement
was to design only at this point, but I
did I did communicate to the board chair
that I felt that this should have at
least gone to our website. So it would
have been advertised to local
contractors if they were invited to bid.
>> Okay. And Ann, you told us at our last
meeting that this uh RFP was closed. Is
there any change to that information?
>> Not heard anything else.
>> Okay.
Okay. Um let's move on to AE NIP program
request for expenditures. Um Eric, have
we gotten anything from
>> I I do not have an update from Megan. So
that's on hold until we get some, you
know, a finalized set of project details
back from them.
>> Okay. All right. Um nine, uh new
business. Um 9A quote for the
installation of the kitchen sub panel
and wiring for the dishwasher for the
community center.
>> Yep. So that is in the packet uh from
Lenco
>> seven.
>> Yeah, it's on page seven.
>> Page seven and eight. Correct.
>> Total for that
>> is 561807.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. And where would you be taking that
from? Multi-use business building fund.
Where are you what's the plan? Well,
presumably since we had uh back put back
into the senior center fund or the the
we had switched paying for the previous
electrical work that Lenco was doing to
the rebate check from Kerma essentially
to use that to pay for the cost. That
refund check was around $5,000.
So, I would just take the the remainder
out of the multi-use building fund um
because that was, you know, at least in
large part intended to be for the
community center.
Okay. So, in a roundabout way, the plan
is to take it out of the multi-use
building fund.
>> Correct.
>> Even though we got money back from
Karma, we have we had to identify a fund
where to put that. We chose to put that
in the multi-use building fund. So
there's additional
>> correct.
>> Okay. That's that's not how we should
all think about it in my mind. It's just
like we either have money in a fund and
we use it out of that fund or we don't.
So
>> Right.
>> We just put $5,000 into that fund. We're
going to spend $5600 to do this project
if we choose to do it.
>> Okay.
>> And just just just for questioning, is
this was this a single bid or was this
was this multi- was this
>> this is only a single bid. So, if you
wanted to go out to bid, it can go out
to bid.
>> Well, I think the dollar threshold is
low enough that we could probably do a
sole source, but um
it looks it looks it looks fair and and
justifiable given the work scope. So,
>> yeah. And what Rick and I had discussed
was one of the problems with that is
there's a fair amount of drywall work
needed to get it over to where it needs
to be. Um, and the goal is only to do
the drywall work once. So, what Rick is
proposing to do is put a uh a whole
bunch of spare conduits
straight from that up through the
adjoining wall into the attic. So, the
you have the possibility of running
something like eight additional circuits
in the future. Um, that will be will
have EMT down to the the panel. So now
you don't have to cut any drywall in
there. Just wherever you drop it down in
whatever room you're putting the
>> Yeah. How many How many chases are you
talking going up?
>> Um
I would assume that's going to
everything's going to go out of at most
two chases.
>> Yeah. And you know what? I'd almost I'd
almost say if we have to spend money for
a third chase for voice and data, I'd
almost do it if we if we don't have it
existing because if we want to put Wi-Fi
access or any kind of internet
connectivity or camera stuff down there,
especially if it becomes a teen center
or anything, we want to video monitor
it, it's definitely worth it if we're
going to cut into the drywall.
>> Well, there's already three cameras down
there in the basement, so the basement's
fairly well covered.
>> Okay. Are they chased? Are they is it is
they're chased back to the central
switch?
>> Uh
yeah. Well, all the wiring's run in the
wall. Um that was all done.
>> But that's what I was saying. If we want
to add anything additionally like
connectivity wise, you know, is it is it
worth it putting extra chase just for
data in there?
>> Just something to think about. That's
all.
>> Yeah. The the only and and I'm not
opposed to that. What I'm just thinking
is that all the data stuff
um
all the fire alarm stuff goes down to
the equipment room. So that that's
already in and in the wall. All the data
stuff already comes the circuits are
already run down to there. So I'm not
sure would do us. So, so you're So, is
is our internet access point in the
basement?
>> Yes, because the fiber comes into the
basement.
>> Okay. So, if we ever want to put a Wi-Fi
access point or something on the outside
of the building for anything, do we have
access to that if you had to go through
the attic?
>> Uh,
we don't.
>> So, that's what I'm just saying. for for
if it cost us 500 bucks or $700 extra to
put extra chase in, it might be worth
it. That's all that's all I would that's
all I would suggest because, you know,
you're going to find things in the
future that you're going to want to
install and then you're going to be
tearing drywall out again to put another
chase in.
>> Yeah. No, I mean that's, you know, we we
tried as best we could to future proof,
but you know, we knew we didn't put
enough electrical panels in right off
the bat because we didn't have the
funds.
>> Um, there is an Yeah, there is an
existing exterior
uh Wi-Fi. Um
but yeah, I'll I'll have
>> I mean I mean we could go outside the
building and go up the siding or
something. It's it's going to be kind of
ugly, but it just be nice to go up
through the attic and just put something
on the outside of the building if you
want to put an access point.
>> Listen, Jeff's Jeff's request.
>> Yeah, I
just let's try to sit there and do it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I I have no no
issues with that. I was just thinking
about where it would have to go. I don't
>> The funny thing is, you never know. You
get stuff in the future that comes up,
you know, technology-wise, and you're
like, "Oh, man. I need I wish I would
have put that chase in at the time,
>> and if it cost us $500 more, let's just
do it and have the extra to have extra
path."
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, um, any further
discussion on the this project related
to the kitchen wiring? No. Okay. I'm
going to make a motion that we authorize
the town administrator to
um sign a contract with Lenco Electric
Contractors LLC for $5618.7
to complete the installation of the
kitchen sub panel and wiring for the
dishwasher for the community center.
>> I'll second.
>> All right, we'll we'll give that one to
Ann Cr. So Anne Creme seconded. Um
further discussion.
Um so we'll vote. Uh and
>> I
>> uh Carol
>> Jeff Murray
>> I
>> Scott Person
>> I Scott said I
>> Jeff Maguire I so five nothing.
Okay, let's go on to 9B. Quote for the
installation of lights at the Andover
Public Library.
That item starts on page nine.
So, I've had a request from the library
for a while. They've never felt that the
stairwell walkway lighting uh to the
outside of the building was adequate.
Um, I've walked in it in the dark. Not
in the dark, after dark.
I don't personally think it's that bad,
but I, you know, it just because it's
not bad to me doesn't mean it's it's uh
not problematic for some other people.
So they have requested
uh you know the ability to run exterior
pathway lighting
um you know so I asked Lenco for a quote
for that one also
um so that's what you have sitting there
you know I think that would be if we
were going to do that I consider that
more of maintenance item. So, I would
apply that to the building maintenance
fund. Um, you know, and fund that
through that
if that's something that the commission,
the board of selectman's interested in
doing.
>> So, is this two components 4556
and 3617?
Is this two pieces? There's there's
lighting for the walkway that seems to
be 4556 and then page 10 is flagpole.
Uh that is different and we'll talk
about that one too and I'm going to make
a suggestion a separate suggestion for
that one.
>> Can I just ask why we wouldn't take the
library lighting out of the multi-use
building fund?
We could
I mean the question is is that really a
maintenance operation or is that a
multi-use?
It I could I could see either way. I'm
I'm not opposed to either as the funding
mechanism.
>> Okay. Um
>> the the lights for the flags at Veterans
Park, are you suggesting that from
multi-use buildings fund too? Nope.
>> I know it's an excellent. You're going
to use that from something else. Okay.
>> I mean, well, well, let's talk about
that one separately.
>> Okay. Separate. I'm sorry. Sorry. I
thought I thought this was the library.
So, it's it's the flag pole at the
field. Okay. All right. My apologies.
So, let's talk the first one. The
exterior lighting at the library. The
total on that project is 4556.
Anybody have any problem with that?
All right. I will make a motion that we
authorize the town administrator to sign
a contract or sign a contract with Lenco
electrical contractors
not to exceed 4556
for the installation of lights
>> and over public library to facilitate
the illumination of the walking area.
Second it, Jeff.
>> Second, Jeff.
>> Scott Person seconded this. Is there any
other discussion? Um, I do have one
question. So, Eric, the uh library
commission is on board with this.
>> They're the ones who requested it.
>> Correct.
>> This satisfies their concerns.
>> Okay. And it satisfies their concerns,
but
um it's still a priority for them right
now. I'm just making sure that the line
there for
>> correct.
>> And honestly, I've been putting this off
for a while. They've been bugging me
for, you know, um maybe not quite a
year, but a while. Um
>> uh anybody have any other questions or
any other concerns related to this?
>> Okay. Um we're going to move to move the
question vote and creme.
Uh I you're on mute. You just come.
Okay. Say it for me. And
>> K.
>> Hi. All right. Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Went out of alphabetical order. My
apologies. Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Maguire. I Okay. Five. Nothing.
Okay. Uh, page 10, Eric, is an estimate
for a monument park flag pole lighting.
Okay, so this was something that uh
didn't fit into the original work
um due to cost for the uh when the field
was upgraded.
So,
I guess this is really a question of
aesthetics because I've gone down and
looked at it repeatedly
and it seems like it's perfectly well
illuminated to me. But then again, I've
had multiple people complain that the
illumination on the flag isn't right and
that it's okay if the flag's at half
staff. But so basically the lights that
are there now illuminate both the flag
pole and the the monuments that are in
front of the flag poles. And what this
uh quote is to basically separate those
two, use the existing lighting to light
the monuments itself, and then put in
the same flag pole lighting essentially
that we've gone back in in the last
couple years at Town Hall and done. And
also we redid fairly recently, the one
at the library. um you know so that each
of the three flag poles has its own
uplight. Um you know I would agree that
would it would probably look better
aesthetically I think it would be a good
fit but you know it's $3600.
Um
Joanne foreign did uh offer to write a
Hartford Foundation for public giving
grant.
um to try to see whether she could cover
the cost of this. And so I guess my
question is, is this something you want
to see,
you know, if you want to consider this,
is this something you want to see done
now? Because from soil conditions, it
wouldn't be a bad time to disturb the
soil and then recede um you know, for
next year. or do you want to try to wait
until this gets done uh and and see
whether we can grant fund it? So, that's
really my question for the board is a do
you want to do this and b if so what how
do you want to handle paying for it?
>> I just got a question. Are they
incandescent lights now or the LEDs?
Uh
there.
So the the lights that are there are two
different lights. Um I think at least
one's an LED because one got damaged
last year and was replaced with an LED.
Um
you know, and the other one I don't
know. I'm assuming both the lights that
are there now are LED. Um the the basic
problem is they're trying to light with
two lights essentially three monuments
and three flag poles.
>> Yeah. But I'd have to go look at it
because I just don't understand why they
just can't screw a tea in there and just
do two light heads and just
illuminate because I mean an LED light
draws you know less than a quarter of an
amp 100 watt LED lamp. So, I mean, I
don't there's plenty of there's plenty
of capacity there,
>> right? the $3,000 seems awfully high for
>> it's really the question of where you're
going to light it from and do you try to
light the location
uh for because if you're going to light
the flag poles directly from below then
that illumination would actually be
installed behind the monuments. So
that's kind of what Rick is proposing.
the first two LED or the first two
lights you've got now just angled a
little lower and shine on the monuments
themselves and then three more behind
the monuments pointing up at the flag
poles.
>> Yeah, I just don't know why we don't
just tee off and just do some spots on
the flag poles just on the flags
themselves. It just it makes more sense
to do it that way. Um I mean if the
angle's good, there's there's no reason
we can't illuminate those flags from
below
>> with a directed spot. So, I I I'd have
to look at it. I I I'm really not in the
loop on where those um luminires are
right now. So, I'd have to go I have to
go out and take a walk and see what see
what we're talking about.
>> I'd like to look at that, too.
>> And this is not an immediate
>> Yeah. depending, you know, over the
years a number of people have have
said they don't like the existing
lights, but whether we do this now or we
do this in six months,
you know, I don't think is is critical
to the running of the town. So, if you
guys want to take a look at it and make
a decision how you want to proceed, that
seems perfectly acceptable to me. My
suggestion would be to have Joan Foreign
apply for the grant. If she doesn't get
the grant, when we look at alternate
funding
and I'd like to look at it myself and
see what the, you know, the direction of
the lighting is.
>> Sure.
>> But yeah, if it's not, if it's not an
immediate need, then I would definitely
go after funding.
We should talk to Joan because we should
look for additional funding because that
really is a very uh nice area and we
should sit there and try to um
illuminate the old town hall and all of
it as as much as possible, even the
bridge if we could because it is a um it
is a nice visual look for the community.
Maybe we need to look into it a little
deeper.
>> Yep, no problem. Anybody else have an
issue with looking
>> I mean that was something I was
discussing because I know we had some
leftover bridge funds even. I don't even
know if those got uh you know dissipated
or not but uh you know I I think
originally we talked about some kind of
solar project on the bridge for for the
lighting there and or even converting
that street light that's close by to the
bridge lighting and actually providing
some luminires underneath. I think it's
just something we should probably create
some kind of lighting plan going
forward.
Um, I have no problem with everyone
taking a look at it because it really
um is a nice and should be lit up as
nice as it possibly can be. I mean,
we're lighting a tunnel in Bolton. I
don't know. I I don't see how we can't
find funding to light a bridge in
Andover. So,
[Music]
>> all right. Um, let's move on to the next
item, which is 9C, the public works
supervisor. We're going to sit there and
take this up in um
session.
>> So, we'll move on from here. 9D trio
meeting announcement.
>> Yep. So, you should have all gotten an
announcement by trio about the tri board
meeting. I'm just putting it on there to
remind you. What's the date for the
community's benefit?
>> It is October 15th at 7 PM in the
community center.
Correction, the community room. My
error.
>> Okay. And uh have we reached out to Jed
Larson about hosting that?
>> Uh
I did.
>> I asked him and he said he would. Eric,
>> good. Thank you.
>> Does anybody have a problem with Jed
hosting it? He did a great job with the
last one.
>> Two.
>> Good.
>> Okay. Excellent. Um,
let's make sure that if we can, we can
all be there, that would be great.
We will sit there and put that in the
calendar right now.
7 o'clock town hall, right, Eric?
That is correct.
>> And you should have all gotten a direct
meeting invite
uh from the board of finance chair.
>> Yeah. No, I I know I saw it. It's just
uh and I know there was discussion out
there. I just wanted to announce it to
the community because they didn't get to
notice.
>> And we are posting that as a meeting.
Uh, presumably yes. I'm pretty sure
that's already posted as a meeting.
>> Let's make sure it's on the calendar.
It is 7 to 9. Okay.
All right. Let's move on.
We're going to move on to item 9E.
Nikko animal control cancellation. Eric.
>> Okay. So, Nikko uh informed me
uh I don't know, four days ago, five
days ago that uh starting July uh they
will no longer be offering animal
control services to the town of Andover.
Um their point is that um it's a giant
hassle. They're losing a ton of money on
it. Um they're legally obligated to
supply it for towns in the NECOG region,
but we're not actually in the region and
you know, they're not looking for other
towns to lose money on. So,
uh I don't have a solution in place for
that. Um we got a while, but we're going
to need to figure out what we can do for
that. Um it's not going to be pretty
because
uh frankly given the changes in state
law regarding
uh what you have to have for an animal
control facility um it would be very
difficult. We would be looking at
building a standalone animal control
facility if we wanted to bring that in
house. So, I think the only real option
we have is find somebody,
you know, an existing town or
municipality that would would cover
Andover also. Um,
so that's where we're at.
>> Can we ask Abram to do that again?
we can ask. But since
so, you know, obviously we went down the
path of trying to combine and have a
three town uh animal control facility
between us, Colombia, and uh and Hebrin.
Um, Hebrin kind of blew that up at the
last minute the last time um when they
got their preferred location for public
works shot down because that original
design incorporated a separate animal
control facility. Um, since they're
probably a couple of years away from
making a decision on what they're going
to do now um that they can't use their
original location. I just don't see them
wanting to absorb us in their existing
location. So, I will ask, but my
suspicion is they're not going to be
interested. So, I mean, I think we got
to be looking at a Vernon or a
Manchester or something like that. Um,
possibly Coventry, but that would be,
you know, more of a stretch.
>> Okay. Can you just keep us informed at
future meetings as to what
>> potential options we have on that front?
>> Yep, I shall do so.
>> All right. Um
item 9F is sustainable Connecticut
certified at bronze level.
So,
um, the town of Andover,
uh, met and was,
uh, certified
as a bronze sustainable CT town. Um, so
that's a big kudo to the sustainable CT
committee and all the work they did led
by Kathy Palazi, who's also on this uh,
phone.
um you know it's a process that took a
number of people over multiple
departments in different areas of town
to accomplish. So I think that was a
great thing. It's nice that they moved
us forward and that we achieved the
certification. So I think a lot of
credit goes to Kathy and the sustainable
CT committee. Um, so that's pretty much
what I have to say for that. There is a
awards celebration on October 28th at
the Goodspeed Opera in East Hatam.
Um, it would be nice to have at least
one or two representatives from the
board of selectmen uh to attend that on
behalf of the town. I know some of the
sustainable CT members will be there.
Um, but if one or two board members
wanted to go to that, that would be
great, too. Um, so kudos. It's something
that's been a long time in in coming. Um
basically the
um to get certification you have to show
you know progress measurable
um progress in 12 different areas um
that impact sustainability of town
operations.
Um, so you know, basically at this
point, the way I look at it is we've got
three years that we're certified and the
goal over the next three years to be
trying to re get the town reertified as
a silver level uh community, which takes
more points and and more effort. So
that's basically it. I'm happy to answer
any questions. Um and actually Kathy
Palazi who's on the call could certainly
answer any of your questions for that.
>> Um can we make sure that we get the
names of all the committee members at
our next meeting so that we can do
something at that meeting for them
because that's something
um very positive for the community that
they undertook and got accomplished. I I
was looking at the information that was
provided uh all of the the audit that
they went through. I think it's uh
extremely positive for the community.
So, let's make sure we recognize them
all at the next meeting.
>> Perfect.
Okay. Anybody have anything else related
to that?
Okay. Let's move on to um 9G
uh capital planning documents.
>> So, I put these back in the packet. I've
sent them to the board. It's basically a
summary and a snapshot of where we are
today. Um and the first one is a list of
not all but the majority of the grants,
large and small. Well, not most of the
small ones, but a sampling of the small
ones and then the large grants that
we've gotten over the last six or so
years. Um, and then a list of the two
ones that we still have outstanding that
we haven't heard back from, which is a
transportation grant to replace the
handicapped accessible van. And the
second is a legislative appropriation
uh through Senator Murphy's office. Um
which, you know, it's anybody's guess on
those two. My suspicion is we won't get
the 2025
uh disabled transportation grant. It
seems like in the past, you know, we've
always gotten it the second or third
time we applied. So, my guess is we'll
be applying again for that this year in
the spring.
um you know, but maybe we'll get lucky
and we'll get that this year. So, that's
going on currently. The second item was
a list of all the grants that are
currently active um and includes the
funding the funds that we have in the
LOIP
uh program. The third document was a
project summary like where we are right
now on the major projects that we've
undertaken both in bridge and road work,
what's happening with the athletic
fields and building related properties.
So that is also in your packet uh to
review. Um, and I think that from from
my end of things is uh
the reason I wanted this to go out now
was so that when we start talking about
funding and spending priorities as a tri
board meeting that you have that
information in front of you. And then
the last document related to that I sent
was the uh report which I provide
generally annually to CIP which is an
update of the town buildings and
properties. Um basically what are the
conditions, condition ranking and then
at the end of that document is kind of a
priority summary
um of
uh the pri you know basically
a an itemized list across all the
buildings of what things need to be
done. And then there's a rating code
associated with that. And that rating
code is basically what is the goal or
what are we attempting to do with this
spending? It's either for accessibility.
It's to be a better public amenity,
energy efficiency, comfort upgrade,
longevity, or something that's important
for public safety and emergency
operations. And then there's a priority
level one through five, depending on how
important that project is. Um, and I
weighted that with a number of different
things. Uh, you know, part of it is how
fast any grant funding that we have
needs to get spent. Um, you know, when I
weighted things that are public safety,
uh, fairly high with that. And then the
last thing is appendix two which is
recommendations for the next budget year
and what we ought to be doing in the
next budget year since we're talking
about that uh in the tri board meeting
and I've given this to the board of
selectmen uh CIP
um board of finance and I gave a copy to
the chair of the board of ed so they
know what what our priorities are also
So, that's basically it on on that item.
Um, I'm happy to answer any questions
you have related to those items and what
my suggestions are.
>> Um, the funding for the design that we
need to uh fulfill the design
funding for the Percy Cook Trail, right?
We need to fund another 40% or something
this next year. I don't think that was
in that 26 27. I I I didn't see it. You
noted it prior to that that it hadn't
been funded, but it I don't think it was
in that you need the funding to to be
passed the next budget cycle.
It may be there, but I I didn't see it.
>> I'll review and I'll update that if if
that's not the case.
I'm expecting to get back from Barton
and Legudas within the next couple weeks
a final proposal for what it would cost
to get to the 100% design stage on that
project.
>> A lot of information there, Eric.
>> Uh, one one thing, Eric, I think it
would be helpful for the board and for
the community is um can you get a list
of all of the grant funding by year?
So, and
I would love for you to go back even
farther than the last six years if it's
at all possible. I know there's not a
lot back there, but I think it would be
helpful for the community to see the
level of grant funding that's been
obtained over the last six years. And
then if we can go backwards, I I think
it's something that we should have
readily accessible all of the grant
funding that has been received by the
town and what it's been spent on.
So, okay, I don't know how I would go
back and figure out prior to my time
what grants were involved, but the first
document I gave you listed all the large
grants and the year of approval.
>> So, you should and you said you didn't
include the small ones. If you could
also get the small ones included so it's
a complete listing of all that, that
would be helpful. I understand and I'm
not asking that it's done, you know,
immediately, but I do think it's I think
this board and I think the community
should understand the total grant
funding dollars that are received and
how
you as the town administrator and the
board of selectmen have worked to get
things done without using tax dollars.
Okay.
>> Okay. I can try to review and increase
uh and give you more information about
the other small grants
>> even if it's in a spreadsheet. It
doesn't need to be in this format, but
it can be in a spreadsheet. So, the
finance department should be able to
assist fairly easily. And I I I will
go backwards and look at the state
I will I will try to go backwards and
try to find the other information for
you. So um okay u it was a lot of
information. It was very helpful to see
if anybody in the community wants to go
through it is very interesting. Um
any other questions related to the
documents that Eric has presented here.
Okay.
All right.
And um
>> we'll talk about that another time.
Okay. So, this goes from page 10 or
whatever down to
where is the end of it?
>> So, you're looking for page 47.
>> 47. There we go.
>> Okay. Uh page 47. There is an email. So
this relates to item 9H AES
transportation.
So um
we have so I I can give you a written
explanation of this. Um, for at least
the last three years, the town has been
allowing AES to use one of the senior
transportation
vehicles and just charging them a
straight mileage reimbursement rate. Um,
which is kind of in the middle of of
what the cost basis is for a commercial
vehicle. Um,
so and they've had multiple drivers and
one of the drivers has been filling up
the vehicle when it needs gas. Um,
and now that person is no longer with
the town and the remaining driver says
it's not her job and that the town
should be filling the vehicle up with
gas. um which I don't think is
you know responsible. I mean they are
using the town's fuel card which is in
the building. We've already always paid
for the gas because that's included in
the per mileage chart. But what the
superintendent seems to think is that
we're going to on a bi-weekly basis or
whatever take one of our senior
transportation drivers, get in the
vehicle that primarily they're the ones
that are using and drive it down uh and
fill it up and bring it back so they
don't have to put gas in it. And I
personally feel that's unacceptable.
um and that if they're not interested in
filling gas, they should find an
alternative vehicle um or pay that go to
to take their kids. Um you know, that's
kind of my take on it.
>> Let's let's let's just get down to it.
So, this is an issue that the individual
that the that the school is hiring to
drive the van does not want to fill the
gas up in the van they're driving.
>> Correct. And it and the superintendent
has decided it's not their problem
anyway that the town should be filling
the vehicle up and they should not have
to fill up their vehicle.
>> All right. We we
>> the other driver did.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. We'll we'll deal with
uh we will deal with that at the tri
board or we will deal with it at
Wednesday's meeting with the board of
education.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
I what I didn't want is I didn't want
that to cause a confrontation between
the community center and the school. And
since the agreement is technically
between the town and signed by Jeff, you
know, after a vote by the board, you
know, I think and there's nothing in
there that says precisely what that
reimbursement rate will cover. Um, you
know, so maybe
>> listen, this is not covering. We're
covering the gas. We're paying for the
gas.
>> Yes.
>> Just filling it up.
>> Correct.
>> This can't be any
simpler.
what we think.
>> I mean, and my question is, do we know
do we do we have an do we have a a an
analysis of the total number of miles
driven
last year?
>> Uh,
we do. I don't have that off the tip of
my head, but we do have that.
>> Well, Jeeoff, it says right in the
contract it's eight and a half miles
each way.
>> No, I know. But what I'm asking, Jeff,
is how many days are they actually using
the van and in total?
>> How many days? Yeah. how many days they
have school times whatever we could
figure it out
>> because we could go fill it up twice
once every other week. I mean it's not
that big a deal. It's just like
>> Oh, so question is all the other senior
transportation drivers and all the AES
or all the school bus drivers fill their
own buses
>> of course.
>> So this we don't have a fuel fairy to go
around.
>> Yeah. I mean I'm just saying if you're a
driver for a vehicle is it expected that
you fill that vehicle? Uh
>> as far as I'm concerned it is.
And all our No, I'm just saying all our
senior transportation drivers fill their
own vehicles and all the big yellow I
mean I'm talking all the data code
drivers fill their own vehicles.
>> Yes, many.
>> Yeah, that's all that's all that's the
question. That's the only question I
had.
>> Okay. All right. Well, we'll try to get
a reasonable result on that.
All right.
Um, we had a 9 I a fire commission
request uh related to the trade in uh of
the current ambulance. So, Eric, this
the information uh they're going to
trade it in with the current company
that is that is building the new
ambulance that's coming to us.
>> Correct.
>> Um
Okay.
Even though it is a town asset, it's
still part of the fire commission and
the fire department's ambulance services
and they're going to have a new vehicle
to replace that one. So, the question
that we're really asking is the $21,000
an appropriate number for
I mean, that's the only question I have.
Is 21,000 the right number? 2012
vehicle.
>> Yeah.
>> Ambulance.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. 13y old ambulance that's been
crashed once pretty hard.
>> Um I don't think that's a bad number.
>> Okay. Um do we have any anybody
>> in the ambulance sales business either?
>> No. Does anybody on the board have any
issues related to um the allowing the
fire commission to trade in that
ambulance for the new vehicle?
>> And the other thing I would say is that
Wall-E is on the call. If you have
direct questions from Wall-E, I'm sure
he can answer them for you.
>> Well, you know, I know that Wall-E
drives Jeeps and that Jeeps and
Wall-ally drives vehicles like me, tries
to drive them till the very end. So,
Wall-E, we'll ask you a question. Is
that Jeep worth $21,000 or more?
>> The Jeep that that ambulance. I'm sorry.
Wall-Ally might not be able to get off
mute.
>> There it is. There he is.
Yes.
[Laughter]
>> I love it. Simplicity. And over
simplicity. It's It's the right number.
Okay. All right. Um
>> there it is.
>> I'll make a motion that we authorize the
uh Andover Fire Commission to um trade
in the current ambulance with the
company that is selling the fire
commission or yeah the fire commission
the new ambulance.
>> Second ch
>> I'll second.
>> Okay, we'll give that one a spot person.
Further discussion on that.
>> I would just amend that to say one thing
and that you authorize the town to
accept the donation of the new ambulance
from the Endover volunteer fire
department.
>> How we how about we do it in two
motions?
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, we have a motion on the
table to allow the fire commission to
trade in the current ambulance,
and the number is going to be in the
$21,000 range, but to trade in. So,
we're authorizing them to trade in a
town vehicle.
All right. Any further discussion on
that? Okay. Any
creme. Yes or no?
>> Vote. Yes, sir.
>> I can't hear you. I can't hear.
>> It happened.
>> I Okay. Uh Carol Lee.
>> I
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire. I All right. Um
and um then I I'll make another I'll
make a motion that um we authorize the
town of Andover to accept the donation
of a new ambulance vehicle from the fire
commission
uh when available.
>> Actually, I don't think it's from the
fire commission. I think it's
technically from the Andover volunteer
Fire Department,
Inc.
>> Okay. And my motion that I authorize the
town to accept the donation of a 2025
ambulance from the Andover Fire
Department, Inc. or the Andover Fire
Department Corporation.
>> Andover volunteer fire department.
Volunteer Volunteer Fire Department
Corporation.
Carol.
>> I'll second.
>> Okay. So, now we got Carol Lee on board,
too. So, Carol Lee is seconded. Okay.
Further discussion on accepting the
donation of the ambulance. Um, anything?
Anybody?
All right. Uh, Anne Cre.
Okay. I saw it. Any said I uh Carol Lee
>> I
>> Jeff Murray
>> I Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire I.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you.
>> Testing.
>> Okay. We're going to go on to item 10.
Uh approval of the minute meetings from
September 15, 2025. Uh the meetings
didn't get in the packet, so we got to
put that off to the next meeting.
>> Okay, we'll do that. Uh item 11,
treasures reports, the finance
department report, the revenue summary,
the town budget summary, town a road
appropriation transfers, over
expenditure report, summary of audit
status, and OPM notification.
Anybody have any questions related to
the treasurer's report?
>> I do. We were getting an account quick
report which showed the checks that were
written on a monthly basis. The last one
that we received in our was in our April
packet and that was for the month of
March. Is there a reason why we're not
getting these anymore?
>> Not a good one.
>> Yeah, I would tell you not.
>> Okay.
>> Well, back check registers.
>> Couple things. Can you can you get that
back for us? And then also at the last
meeting, I requested that we get um the
budget versus action for July through
June of 2025.
So July 2024 through June of 2024. I
asked, can you email that out to all the
board members so we can see a
positional level and it needs to be in
the next packet so the town gets it and
the town that the the residents see it
and have that information available. So
I would like that and I also asked last
time for balance sheet. Um, I would like
that
in the packet so that we can sit there
and see even if the fund balances have
some adjustments. I can live with
adjustments. I just more information the
better and it gives myself and it gives
other residents an understanding of what
is occurring other than us just spending
money. It's like what do we have, where
are we, how are we find, and so on. So,
I'd like that information as well. So,
please ask the treasur's office for
that.
Okay. Does anybody have any questions
related to the treasurer's uh
information? Anything else?
Okay, we'll move on to uh the tax
collectors report, the dashboard, the
intake, the collector's update, the
delinquent top delinquents,
and the refund requests. So,
last month, the tax collector uh for
August collected,
we don't have the September information
because we're too close to the end of
the month.
>> Correct. Okay. For August, they
collected two $268,2268.
Okay.
And she did give us September
information. Um,
uh, can you ask her to look at her
reports and change the year on that? I'm
not sure if it's this year or last year.
So on page
61, it said September 2024. It could be
that we just don't have a change of the
document that we were utilizing.
Um, just ask her to look at that.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Right.
>> Yep.
>> Would kind of make sense to me. So, um,
we collect in the beginning of the
quarter, so July. So, we'll have a big
collection month in October.
So,
>> correct. September. Right now,
Kate put together 137 98368.
And you can also tell, you know, she has
the uncollected taxes by year.
The majority of those taxes are in 2024,
but you can sit there and see how far
back they go. Um,
and then also on pages 62,
you know, through,
we'll go through it. This is the
delinquent tax report. What is the
largest uncollected tax accounts?
Uh it goes from 67 and continues down
to
80,
page 81. So you can sit there and see
all the largest uncollected tax
accounts.
anybody in town that wants to look
through there. Very interesting reading.
Okay, we have page 82. Um,
and it is uh tax refunds totaling
$133.13.
I'll make a motion that we authorize the
repayment of tax refunds totaling $100.
$133.13.
>> Second, thankf
>> Scott Persona seconded. Further
discussion
voting. Uh Ann, how do you vote?
Ann raised her hand and said I. Um
>> it's okay. Um,
Carol Lee,
>> I
>> Jeff Murray,
>> hi.
>> Scott Person.
>> Scott, you there?
>> I
>> Jeff Magcguire. I 5 nothing. Okay. Uh,
we're section 13
departmental reports. Um,
we have the community and senior center
transportation and and the programs from
the senior center.
Any questions or remarks related to
that?
Okay. I thank uh Haley and and Tess for
providing this information and uh thank
you for the hard work. Assessor's
office,
the building department,
Lynn sent us an email.
Okay.
>> So, at the last meeting, you had asked
for more information from the assessor's
office.
So, she attempted to provide you more
information, you know, and a breakdown
of everything that was uh issued.
>> That that was more information.
page 101 and 102 and 103 104.
Thank you.
>> All right. And we will look at that. I
will look at that after the fact. Um we
also have the blight report.
So, while we're talking about that,
um, because it falls under this
criteria,
um, we have one builder that's fairly
angry, um, and he said he was going to
come to the board of selectman, but I
don't know whether he's reached out to
you or not. He was unhappy because he
pulled and paid for permits for a new
building on Shoddy Mill Road.
um started clearing the land and he
pulled both zoning permits and building
permits for the town. Um and then
subsequently sold the partial to the
Abuer who didn't want a house being
built next to him. Um, and then he
wanted all his money back for the
permits. And I told him basically, we
don't refund anybody money for permits.
Once you pull the permits, you know, uh,
you paid for the permits. So, he's
unhappy because he's out of pocket about
$4,000.
>> Um, and I said I would bring that up to
the board of selectment. Um, because he
felt it was really unfair. Um, as a
general policy, we have not returned
you know, if you pull a permit and then
later decide you don't want to go
through with it. Um, you know, we
haven't given anybody any money back,
but to me, you know, you're the
executive board of the town, so I think
that's worth consideration by the board
as to how you want to proceed in cases
like that in the future.
>> Well, thank you for making us aware of
it, and it will be addressed at a future
meeting if needed.
Okay.
>> Right.
>> Fair enough.
>> Unless anyone else has any issues
related to that.
>> Okay. Uh, anybody have any questions
related to the VI blight report?
>> I just have one question. Um, we get the
blight report and it has 48 items on
there. 23 of them have been resolved and
some of them have been resolved for over
two years. Um,
is there a way to maybe get those off of
the list so we can just see those that
are current?
It just doesn't seem right to keep them
on there for two and three years. That's
all.
Well, I I think the only reason that
they've stayed on there is that in an
awful lot of cases, um, blight issues
keep reoccurring at the same address.
Um, so this allows you to keep a running
list of everything
uh that's there. But if your guidance
for the zoning agent is that you don't
want anything that's been resolved to
show up on the blight list, um I'm sure
he would uh agree to that.
>> Dave myself would like to see
historically the
different blight problems. Yeah, we've
had a few that um that are on that list
that have been marked resolved, but seem
to be
um procuring material in their yards.
So, need to keep an eye on some of them.
>> Yeah,
>> it's just a list.
>> I don't understand why it's a problem.
Well, the only thing that I would sit
there and say is if there there are
there are
properties that are repeat offenders and
they continue, they they will, as it's
been stated, they'll pop up. Um, there
are some that might be.
Carol, what we'll do is we'll sit there
and we'll look at that report and we'll
sit there and and u get with Eric. Maybe
Eric can get with the zoning officer and
identify if any of those he feels can
come off. I mean, I would sit there and
leave it to the zoning agent and far as
I'm concerned to sit there and and
shrink that report if necessary. If he
thinks there's a location that's going
to continue to become a problem or is
going to stay a problem, then leave it
on there.
But I would let the zoning enforcement
officer do it if it was me. And Scott, I
know you're much closer to this. I know
you're much closer to this. So, um I'm
going to defer to you guys to
>> You think Wayne Wayne could have an idea
of what has happened prior to his hire?
>> Well, you don't need to eliminate the
information. You need to hide the rows.
But, you know, that's the whole thing.
You can keep the whole spreadsheet and
it could be 100% there, but as you print
it to provide for the meeting, you can
minimize the the rows and that would
shrink the So,
>> and if they're repeat offenders, leave
them on there. But if they're people who
just at one time and they've resolved
the issue to keep them on for two or
three years, you know, that's all.
All right, let's deal with this at uh uh
our next meeting. And Eric, if you can
talk to the zoning enforcement officer,
sit there and see what his
recommendation is related to it.
>> Sure.
>> Um
is there anything else on the
departmental reports that anyone wants
to speak about?
Okay. Uh, I'm gonna skip 14 and 15. I'm
going to move to item 16,
correspondence. Eric, do we have any?
>> Nope. Other than the verbal notification
uh from NECOG that they're going to drop
us come July 1.
>> Understood.
Okay. Um,
I'm going to move on to public speak.
Uh, that is not what I was after.
One second. I'm sorry.
Public speak.
Let's start with Tess Gross.
>> I have nothing to add. Thank you.
>> Haley Proto.
>> Nothing to add. Thank you.
>> Diane Graner.
>> Yeah, I have a couple of things I'd like
to comment on.
um on one we'll talk about the blight
one that
you just discussed. I like seeing the
whole thing, the whole list. Um I think
it shows that the the town is doing
something to address the the blight
issue and I'm always amazed at how many
people are on that list. And I think
that's important to see that the blight
um ordinance is being enforced. And um
I I'd like to see the whole list. Maybe
you could just put the ones that are
resolved down at the bottom or something
and just, you know, put the ones that
are acting at the top, something like
that. But I think it's important for
residents to be able to see that um the
issue is being addressed. So that's that
on that. Um as always, I'm um delighted
to see Eric's um administrative report.
uh always large and always informative
and I was um delighted to see all the
grants that have been um um received
over the past several years. I think
that's really important that residents
know that it's not all tax dollars that
are being spent. Um I think we went
several years with maybe we were getting
grants, we just didn't know about it.
But uh to see all the grants that are
coming forward, I think that's important
for residents to see. Um, and I'd like
to I I see the Palazis are no longer on
the meeting, but uh kudos to them for
their sustainable Connecticut uh bronze
uh uh certification. I know that uh
Kathy and her team have worked really
hard, really long for a um to to make
that happen. It was a long haul and uh I
applaud her efforts to doing that and um
the fact that she's going to continue on
and go for the silver is uh kudos to
her. I think that's uh something that
Andover can be proud of. Um
>> I don't know that she's actually agreed
to that yet, but I'm suggesting that
that should be her next step.
>> I I I've chatted with her and yes, she
she's going forward.
>> All right. Excellent.
>> Yes. So, it's like good for us. Good for
us. You know, uh Andover would be uh
wonderful if we could get more people
like Kathy Palazi involved in things
like this. This is a it's a wonderful
thing. Uh the other thing is the
lighting at the monument park. Uh while
you're looking at the lighting, um if
you could look at the lighting for the
big sign that says Andover Veterans
Monument Park. Um that sign and the
lighting was put in by um donations, uh
volunteers, and we took what we could
get at the time, and the lighting isn't
exactly right. There's spotlights there
which make hot spots on the sign and
they really should be um a flood lights
that more there's no hot spot on it. It
just kind of lights the whole thing
evenly. Um and if you're getting grants
or whatever, if you're looking at the
lighting down there, if you could take a
look at at that, uh the fixtures are
fine. Just needs to have a um flood
light rather than spotlight on both
sides of that. Um, and that that's
pretty much all I have to say about uh
what you've done. I I think you guys do
a wonderful job and thank you all for
all you do for us.
>> All right. Thank you, Alicia Lee.
>> No comment. Thank you.
>> Okay, Marcy Miner.
>> Hi. Uh, just uh wanted to say thank you.
I never ceases to me amaze me how much
you guys accomplish every month. So, uh
just wanted to say thank you and uh I'm
impressed. I too uh was glad to see the
uh report on the grants. I know that uh
a lot has been accomplished in the last
few years and uh it's really nice to see
that on paper and uh you know how just
it's just amazing how much you you get
done. Thank you.
>> Right, Kimberly Pursome.
>> Um yes. Hi. I wanted to talk a little
bit about the bathroom renovation
project and the lack of the RFP.
It concerns me that for years people sit
on these committees and they form these
policies and plans that we're all
supposed to follow. And it seems that
this one hasn't been followed in any
way. It also concerns me that the
leaders of our children in our community
are the group that aren't following the
policy. I think that's some food for
thought for me. Thank you.
>> Okay. Uh Joan Heert.
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Did I miss anyone?
>> Okay. Um
everyone, uh thank you very much. We're
going to sit there and put you into a
waiting room and go into our executive
session right now. Uh, I'm going to make
a motion that we move to executive
session and uh that we invite uh town
administrator Eric Anderson in for the
discussion.
>> And you want to second?
>> Carol Lee seconded. Okay. Um,
we'll vote on that. Ann
Carol.
>> Jeff Murray. Hi. Scott Person.
Scott Person said yes. Jeff Magcguire I
>> Okay. All right. Uh Eric, if you can um
community voice, Tess and Joanne Heert,
if you could
Jeff, can you hear me now?
Yes, Ann. Okay,
>> thank you. Got it working.
>> Jeff, Scott, Carol,
it five. Okay, hang on. Long.
>> Okay. So, um we have just uh come out of
executive session at 11:07 p.m. and uh
we have one uh item of business or two
items of business to conduct. Uh, one is
I'm going to make a motion to authorize
the town administrator to offer a
selected candidate the position as town
over department of public works
supervisor with revised contract to
reflect the supervisor position.
>> I'll second.
>> Seconded by
um we're going to uh further discussion.
Okay, we're gonna vote. Uh, Ann Ket,
>> Carol Lee,
>> I.
>> Uh, Jeff Murray,
>> hi.
>> Scott Person,
>> Jeff Maguire.
>> All all five of us voted uh in favor of
of that motion. And then uh I don't
believe we have anything remaining. Um
the only thing left on on is a motion of
adjournment. So let's see that
>> motion to adjurnn.
>> Okay, that was item 18. A motion made by
Jeff Murray, seconded by Carol Lee. Uh
all those in favor, we're going to do it
at one time. I
>> I
[Music]
>> I have nothing. Eric, thank you very
much. And you can end the recording.
Thank you.
>> See you guys.
>> All right. Thanks.